---
project: nest
audience: maintainer plus the forge/nest/lens dev teams
status: active. supersedes the optimism of the compression cards; folds in the owner's four corrections; 2026-06-07 errata reconciles it with the repo audit (pq numbers unmeasured, "merged" is branch-local, recall is self-perturbation)
last-updated: "2026-06-07"
domain: compression frontier, honest measurement, and orchestration plan
---

nest compression: the honest plan

this is the durable record agreed on 2026-06-06 after a week of work and three rounds of
correction. read it before touching any compression code. it is plain prose on purpose. it
captures the goal, the error we will not repeat, where we really are, the four holes the owner
found and how each is closed, the gate-zero prerequisite, the single proving cycle, the levers
in honest priority order, the non-negotiable rules, and the loop-versus-workflow playbook.

errata 2026-06-07 (audit reconciliation; where this block conflicts with the body below, this
block wins, the body is kept for its reasoning)

a full repo audit on 2026-06-07 checked this record against the actual code, git, and the
dat/measure artifacts, and corrected three claims that were not true as written.

one, the pq numbers are not measured. "pq-192 0.951", "pq-96 0.869", and "pq plain 0.206 at
0.951" exist only in this prose (and the 0.206 size was borrowed from the measured int8 mrl192 row in ladder.json, not a pq build). there is no pq codec, no k-means or codebook script, and no pq
row in any dat/measure json or any .nest in the repo. treat every pq number here as an unmeasured
hypothesis from an uncommitted, unreproducible numpy probe, not as a result. no pq number is real
until a committed codec is measured on the gate-zero real-query ruler.

two, "merged" means landed on the branch research/nest-genome-v2, not on main. as of this errata
main is at 77ae6625 and predates every phase-0 and p1 commit, so nothing in "where we really are"
is on main. read "merged" as "on the working branch, awaiting the maintainer's merge".

three, every recall number in this record and in dat/measure (tiny 0.992, the whole mrl curve,
all of it) comes from the weak self-perturbation ruler that correction one describes: the query
is a corpus vector plus tiny noise, so the figure measures rank-stability under quantization, not
real-query retrieval. ladder.json and baseline.json now carry a ruler-provenance field that says
so, and gate-zero replaces this ruler before any "greater than or equal to 0.96" is trusted.

addendum 2026-06-07 (measured on the clinical corpus, post-compression-run; extends the errata,
does not replace it)

three things were measured after the errata and are recorded here so the plan stops chasing a
number that does not exist.

one, the group ruler has no statistical power below tiny. at about 3000 queries the standard
error on a group-recall rate near 0.05 is about 0.005, and the sub-tiny presets sit within one or
two of those of each other (nano 0.050, mrl128-int8 0.054, mrl128-int4 0.046). that spread is
noise. the group ruler cannot rank nano versus mrl128; any "this preset wins by 0.004" claim below
tiny is unsupported. report sub-tiny presets as a tie on this ruler, not as an ordering.

two, the 0.96-with-margin target was calibrated on the weak self-perturbation ruler and does not
exist in the real problem. on the real group ruler the best embedder tested (multilingual-e5-large,
a 1024-dim transformer) tops out at recall 0.19, and the offline potion baselines sit at 0.06 to
0.12. so the ceiling of the whole retrieval problem on this corpus, with the best available model,
is about 0.19, not 0.96. chasing 0.96 is chasing a ruler artifact. the honest, defensible
compression result is narrower and true: int8 tracks exact within about two points on every ruler
measured (self-perturbation, title-body, group). that is the whole claim compression earns,
"compression does not degrade what the model already knows", nothing more. whether 0.19 is the
ruler ceiling or the embedder ceiling is unknown without a small human-judged labeled set on this
corpus (the real gate-zero), which is the next measurement.

three, a generic metadata filter beats the embedder ceiling for the scoped query, with no new model
or codec. a new optional section (meta_index, 0x17: a generic (field, value) to chunk-ordinals
inverted index, excluded from content_hash exactly like bm25 and hnsw, opened by section presence)
plus a runtime search_filtered now scope the exact cosine to one (field, value) subset. measured on
the clinical corpus (2915 notes, 7595 chunks, default potion): scoping by patient_file_id moves
group-recall@10 from 0.092 (whole corpus, 7595 candidates) to 0.999 (patient scope, about 48
candidates), at 0.015 ms per query versus 0.568. the content_hash is byte-identical with and without
the section, so a nest:// citation is unaffected. honest framing: this does not find the right
patient (a different query), it makes within-a-known-group retrieval exact and complete because the
candidate set IS the group. the field name is just a string the caller chose; no market rule lives
in nest.

four, a structural audit of the source zip (notes.zip, 1,146,701 notes; phi-safe sample n=3823 at
1:300, counts only) corrected three assumed test items before any of them was built. feature
coverage, measured: date 100 percent, user_id (the note's author IS the therapist) 99.8 percent,
patient_file_id 94.2 percent, decrypted_notes (the body) 91.7 percent; but session_id only 29.6
percent and therapy_type only 14.1 percent. consequence: "whole-session chunking" can group at most
30 percent of notes and "re-rank by therapy_type" rests on a feature present in one note in seven;
date and therapist are the only clinical features dense enough to index or re-rank on. boilerplate
at the line level is essentially zero: one 14-char line repeats across 143 notes, total boilerplate
char-mass is 0.0 percent of indexed text, and no note embeds its previous_notes verbatim in its
body. so "suppress boilerplate before indexing" has no target on this corpus; the cosine-near-1.0
pairs the labeled set surfaced are short near-duplicate notes (a document-dedup question), not
template lines. the only pre-index cleaning the data justifies is dropping the about 8 percent of
notes with an empty body. therapist genericity was then proven on real data: rebuilding the cohort
(2915 notes, 7595 chunks) with patient_file_id AND user_id both indexed yields a content_hash
byte-identical to the no-meta build (b9219aef9) with a differing file_hash, and search_filtered
returns 12/12 in-group hits for BOTH fields (bogus value to 0 hits, unfiltered search() unchanged
over all 7595 chunks). the 0x17 index is field-generic on real data, and "index by therapist" is
well-founded: therapist is the denser key (top therapist 1433 docs versus top patient 66).

five, the 0.19 "ceiling" from point two is mostly a RULER ARTIFACT, shown by a real human-judged
relevance ruler (the gate-zero that point two said was the next measurement). 186 (query-note,
candidate-note) pairs were sampled stratified by retrieval rank (rank 1, 5, 20, 60, and a random
non-retrieved note) and labeled 0/1/2 for clinical relevance by an llm judge reading the full note
text locally (phi-safe: only id, label, and a generic category were returned; no note text, names,
or ids left the judge). result: retrieval rank tracks human relevance cleanly. the rank-1 candidate
is relevant (label>=1) 80 percent of the time and clearly relevant (label==2) 48 percent, decaying
monotonically to a random note at 22 and 7 percent (rank 5: 70/40, rank 20: 58/28, rank 60: 49/13).
so potion retrieval surfaces relevant notes at the top far better than the 0.097 group-recall
implied; the group ruler undercounted because "same patient_file_id" is not "relevant" — a note on
the same clinical theme from a DIFFERENT patient is genuinely relevant but the group ruler scored it
a miss. potion cosine itself is a real but COMPRESSED relevance signal: auc 0.735 loose / 0.646
strict, with only a 0.05 to 0.07 mean-cosine separation (relevant 0.91 versus irrelevant 0.84)
because the potion cosines are jammed into [0.79, 0.92]. honest readout: 0.19 is NOT the embedder's
relevance ceiling, it is the group ruler's artifact. loose thematic retrieval already works; strict
"clearly related" retrieval (48 percent at rank 1) is the part with headroom, and that is exactly
where a higher-dynamic-range embedder (e5) could help — now a cheap, well-posed test on these same
labels, since the labels are embedder-independent and only the cosine predictor changes. caveats:
single llm rater (no inter-rater agreement measured, not a licensed clinician), note-to-note
relevance is one definition of the task, and n is 40 queries / 186 pairs. this corrects point two:
do not quote 0.19 as the problem ceiling; quote the human ruler (rank-1 relevant 80 percent loose,
48 percent strict) and treat e5-versus-potion on these labels as the open question.

six, on that human ruler a bigger / transformer embedder does NOT beat the tiny static potion. the
same 186 labels re-scored three embedders, all seeing the WHOLE note (potion = mean of every word
vector; the two cached transformers windowed into 512-token chunks and mean-pooled, so truncation is
not the handicap): potion auc 0.735 loose / 0.646 strict; labse (768d) 0.693 / 0.580;
paraphrase-multilingual-minilm (384d) 0.612 / 0.474 (strict below chance). both transformers LOSE to
potion, minilm badly. the likely reason: minilm and labse are sentence / bitext models trained on
short text, and mean-pooling them over a long clinical note leaves their training distribution,
whereas potion's mean-of-words is naturally length-robust and captures the topical overlap that
"same theme / same patient" relevance rewards. so on this task the embedder is NOT the lever: the
0.13 ms/query static model is the best of the three tested. the one model not yet tested is
multilingual-e5-large, which UNLIKE minilm/labse is retrieval-tuned (query:/passage: prefixes) and
is the prior session's 0.19-group-recall model; it needs a ~2 gb download and runs at ~84 ms/query
(635x potion). given two transformers already lost, the prior that e5 earns that cost is weak, but
it is the one clean remaining embedder test. the honest direction the evidence points: stop investing
in the embedder; the wins on this corpus came from the metadata filter (point three) and from
recognizing the ruler artifact (points four and five), not from a heavier model.

the unstoppable goal

the nest is the most compact, sovereign, citable ai database in the world, in three layers:
forge ingests anything and emits a deterministic canonical intermediate, nest compresses and
serves it as one frozen-v1 mmap file that never opens a socket and always returns a real cosine
score, and lens lets a human or agent search, cite, and see. the compression goal is to push
the file ratio well below today's tiny (0.256) while holding recall@10 with margin above the
gate, guaranteed by the exact rerank, on a real corpus, offline by construction (no torch, no
socket, no network), deterministic (byte-identical builds), with verifiable nest:// citations
that reopen the exact span. the product goal is the agent-native flagship working: ask,
retrieve, cite, where the returned score is the exact rerank value. honesty is non-negotiable:
never a fake win that compresses by breaking recall, never a bare-slab ratio, always net-of-fp,
always measured recall. the recall target is not 0.95, it is 0.96 with proven margin, because a
preset born 0.001 from the gate dies on the first different corpus. and, per correction one
below, that margin only means something measured on a real-query ruler.

the error we will not repeat: laziness

we applied only the shallow methods (zstd-19 on text, int8, linear int4, intpack on integers)
and concluded sub-0.10 was impossible. that was laziness, not a limit. the real methods were
never tried. product quantization (pq) was probed in uncommitted numpy and claimed to beat int4,
but no codec, script, or artifact survives in the repo, so it is an unverified hypothesis (errata). the
rule for ever: no one declares a method impossible before implementing and measuring the methods
the research already names. the counterpart honesty, against blind optimism: pq at 96 bytes
(16x, about 3 mb) was claimed at recall 0.869 (unmeasured, errata) and fails; pq with an f32 rerank
source reaches near perfect recall but must store the f32 vectors (47 mb) and ends up larger than
tiny. that is the net-of-fp trap (a hypothesis, not a committed measurement, errata): pq as a
candidate generator buys speed, not size.

where we really are (2026-06-06)

merged onto the working branch (research/nest-genome-v2, not main, errata): all of phase 0 (guardrails, codec registry, manifest additivity, the rerank-honesty
gate with the score_subset handle, the materialize ram-leak fix), forge-0a (.fci schema), p1#06
(intpack on hnsw/bm25/spans/chunk_ids), and p1#10 (the real potion embedder, model2vec
potion-base-8M, dim 256, offline, no torch, semantic). on branch research/nest-genome-v2, saved
to the cloud at commit cada1585, an autonomous run committed: the int4 codec, matryoshka, the
per-chunk text streams, dict/fsst/dedup, the measured ladder, the g1 graph (graph_adjacency
0x0c with search-graph), and the flagship (ask, retrieve, tier-1 cite, SearchExplain). the truth
of the numbers: the usable frontier is still tiny (0.256, recall 0.992); every sub-tiny linear
preset fails (nano int4 0.913, all matryoshka rungs below 0.81, because the 384-dim minilm
baseline is not matryoshka-trained so prefix truncation is near a random dim subset). the new
hypothesis (not yet measured, errata) is pq. the flagship works end-to-end, validated by hand: nest ask over a
potion-built demo_corpus returns the right doc by meaning, with a real nest:// citation,
SearchExplain saying rerank_source real cosine, and nest cite reopening the exact span (bytes 0
to 512). honest caveat: potion (dim 256, english) misses about one paraphrase in eight; the
product works, the retrieval quality is bounded by the small embedder.

the four corrections (from most painful to least), and how each is closed

correction one, the critical one: the recall ruler is suspect, and it contaminates every number.
measure_presets builds queries by perturbing the corpus's own vectors. that tests find the
neighbor of a near-identical point, which is far easier than find the right doc for a real
question. so the 0.951 (pq-192, an unmeasured hypothesis) and the measured 0.992 (tiny, on this weak ruler) are likely inflated, and pq is hit
harder than int8 by this, because reconstruction error matters more when the query is far from
any corpus vector than when it is a near-duplicate. chasing 0.96 with margin against this weak
ruler is chasing margin on a weak metric, the self-illusion the plan swears to avoid. closure:
the mteb-style real-query recall harness (already an open p0 card, never done) is not a later
item, it is gate-zero, the prerequisite of cycle 1. no pq number is trusted until it is measured
on real query-to-doc pairs.

correction two: today no proven preset passes the 0.96 margin. the only sub-tiny candidate on the table is
pq-192 at 0.951, an unmeasured hypothesis (errata) that even if real fails the new goal, and 0.96 depends on the unmeasured bet that opq gets
there. closure: cycle 1 carries a written honest failure criterion. if pq, then opq and
residual, does not reach recall greater than or equal to 0.96 on the real ruler at a size below
int8 (11.9 mb), the valid result is "pq does not beat tiny with margin, tiny stays the
frontier", reported as measured truth, not as team failure. without this criterion the team
tunes until it passes, which is laziness in another outfit.

correction three: deterministic cross-cpu opq is technically hard, and the plan underestimated
it. the opq rotation is an iterative svd/eigendecomposition; byte-identical on arm and x86
(different blas, different bits) is non-trivial and probably forces an own implementation.
closure: decouple it. cycle 1 is pure pq (k-means with a fixed seed, simpler). opq becomes cycle
2. and a warning that extends the point: even pure-pq k-means has a cross-cpu determinism risk
because the distance matrix goes through float/blas; so cycle 1 must solve determinism honestly,
either a backend-independent reduction, or compute the codebooks once and store them in the file
with the fingerprint in provenance (determinism by storage, documented, instead of by
recompute). this determinism decision belongs to cycle 1, not cycle 2.

correction four: the plan never said where the codebooks live in the frozen format. the pq codes
are fixed-stride and live with the embeddings section. but the codebooks (256 by m by subdim, in
f32, about 400 kb) are a separate structure and need a new reserved section, decided by the
foundation team in cycle 1, not discovered mid-way. and the content_hash question has a mandatory
answer: the same codes with different codebooks decode to different vectors, so the codebooks are
part of the embeddings content identity; the embeddings-layer content_hash must cover codes plus
codebooks together, or two files with the same content_hash would decode to different vectors and
the citation would lie.

gate-zero (the prerequisite, do this first)

build the mteb-style real-query recall harness on a license-clean labeled retrieval set (real
queries plus relevant docs). re-measure exact and tiny (int8) on it to establish the true recall
ruler. only then does any "greater than or equal to 0.96" mean anything, and the pq-192
0.951 hypothesis must be measured here for the first time (it will likely come in lower). until this exists, the 0.96 margin is
fantasy. the first concrete movement of the whole effort is this harness, not the codec.

cycle 1 (one full proving cycle, before any parallel teams)

a single workflow, migrate plus review pattern. pure pq only, no opq. k-means deterministic with
a fixed seed and the determinism decision resolved (backend-independent reduction, or store and
pin the codebooks with the fingerprint in provenance). codebooks in a new reserved section, with
content_hash covering codes plus codebooks together, decided up front. prove the whole pipeline
in the real .nest. green means, all together: cargo build release, cargo test release on the
workspace (release so hnsw_recall does not time out), clippy with no warnings, fmt, a codec
roundtrip test, a determinism test (two builds byte-identical), the golden raw fixture intact,
and the recall measured on the gate-zero real-query harness, with the written failure criterion
in force. the content_hash acceptance is not "pq equals f32" (it never will, by construction,
just like int8 and int4 differ from f32); it is determinism (two pq builds produce identical
content_hash), the golden raw fixture stays byte-identical, and citations resolve within the pq
corpus. commit explicit paths on the branch, push to the cloud, no merge to main. only after this
cycle is proven on the real file do we parallelize.

cycle 2 and beyond: opq (with the hard cross-cpu determinism solved, or store-and-pin), residual
quantization, and pushing the margin; then the rest of the levers below.

the levers, in honest priority order

embeddings, the proven lever. the pq codec: a new encoding id, codebooks stored in the file (256
centroids per sub-block in f32) plus the n-by-m uint8 codes; train k-means offline and
deterministic at build time; at runtime build the asymmetric distance table for candidate
generation and reconstruct the vector for the exact rerank via score_subset, at stored precision
with no fp source; measure recall@10 on the real ruler. then opq, the rotation computed at build
backend-independently, aiming at recall greater than or equal to 0.96 with margin from the
method, never from tuning the k-means to pass, and proven on a second corpus and with real
queries before becoming a default. rabitq only later, only as a fast candidate generator gated on
a real fp or pq rerank source, reporting net-of-fp, never sold as a size win. the hard rule: any
sub-tiny scheme feeds the exact rerank, reports measured recall@10, reports net-of-fp where an fp
source exists, never shuffles or compresses the embeddings section, and never defaults a preset
without the recall margin.

text, the mathematical ceiling (51 percent of the file). certain delivery: brotli q11 as an
alternative text codec, pick-smaller per section, decoding byte-identical so content_hash is
stable; the fse/tans sovereign entropy floor below zstd for the delta-coded sections; and
dedup-before-zstd by content-hash of identical or near chunks, which only pays on redundant
corpora, measured honestly. the per-chunk streams already landed and enable all of this plus o(1)
reopen, with decoded bytes byte-identical. and the ambitious one, the only path to 0.10: neural
context-mixing text compression (ts_zip style) with a tiny language model via ggml, no torch.
this is the highest-risk lowest-certainty item; it does not become a work-order, it becomes a
timeboxed spike outside the format, and the spike must measure three things before any promise:
the net gain after subtracting the model's own size (the model is shipped offline and counts; a
10 to 50 mb ggml model on a 30 mb file makes it larger, paying off only on large corpora where
it amortizes), the decode latency in cite and ask (the product cannot stall seconds to reopen a
span), and the corpus size at which it breaks even. until the spike proves it, 0.10 is a marked
bet with the owner's name on it, not a goal. the guaranteed honest number is pq plus opq plus
brotli.

integers, the metadata. evaluate turbopfor, partitioned_elias_fano, and libvbyte against the
current fastpfor (via intpack) on the hnsw, bm25, and graph integer sections; adopt only what
measures smaller while staying o(1) and never-panic.

the product, the flagship, already standing and to be firmed. wire hybrid (bm25 plus potion)
into ask, to catch the paraphrases the small embedder misses but that share terms, offline and no
torch, and measure ask semantic versus hybrid on the same queries. close forge-0b: deterministic
nfc and whitespace normalize, the books profile, the python adapter driving the existing pipeline
and calling builder.chunk_text (one chunker), the golden drift-lock test, honoring incremental
and resumable ingestion and never deleting the source.

the format and feature pillars, built in rust now with only the launch deferred (owner call
three): catalog mode with blob_refs (0x14), the original-byte reopen, the 0x16 overlay, and the
.nestpack sidecar; the forge-1 belt with heavy opt-in engines via a json subprocess, deps never
in the rust tree; the g2/g3 entity graph; the forge-2 osint-lake vertical and the cosmos.gl
viewer that never enters the rust core and opens no socket; the multimodal spaces with
SPACE_TABLE (0x15) and per-space routing; the pattern-lover instrument with symbol and glyph
understanding form and color; and the structured tape plus the sovereign tokenizer plus the v2
blake3-merkle evaluation only on measured demand.

the non-negotiable rules (the errors to avoid)

never conclude impossible before implementing and measuring the methods the research names.
never report a bare-slab ratio; sub-int8 or pq without an fp source is real cosine at stored
precision, disclosed, with recall@10 measured on the real ruler; with an fp source report
net-of-fp; never default a preset below the recall margin. frozen-v1 additive: never bump
NEST_FORMAT_VERSION; never bump the payload version of a canonical content-hashed section (0x01
to 0x06); use the reserved ids; the golden stays byte-identical on raw presets. never compress,
dedup, or shuffle the embeddings section; only fixed-stride quant and pq codes there, which are
also fixed-stride. offline by construction: no torch, no socket, no network at build or query;
the default embedder is the vendored potion table; mrl transformer models are rejected (they
break offline-without-torch and text dominates anyway). determinism: two builds byte-identical;
any rotation, codebook, or quant computed at build backend-independently with a fixed seed, or
stored-and-pinned. never panic in lib code, typed thiserror, every unsafe with a SAFETY comment
naming the invariant. hygiene: at most 300 lines per rust source file in crates, 333 elsewhere;
docs lowercase, no emoji, no em-dash. validate before commit: roundtrip plus content_hash plus
determinism tests for codecs, cargo build release, cargo test release on the workspace, clippy
warnings-as-errors, fmt, and the real-ruler measure, all before committing. commit on a branch
with explicit staged paths, never git add all, binaries via git-lfs, and push the branch to the
cloud; never merge to main, the maintainer merges. sandbox note: the release_check search-text
step needs sentence-transformers (absent here), so only that step is env-blocked; the rust gates
must pass; measure_presets runs without it.

the loop-versus-workflow playbook

loop repeats in time, workflow spreads in space. in our house: what builds is always a workflow
(many agents in one pass, deterministic, with stages and verification); the loop never builds the
roadmap, it watches, and has exactly two honest uses. one, a regression guard: periodically run
measure_presets and compare_measure against the gates and shout if any shipped preset dropped
below its recall floor, because corpus or build drift is what kills a margin-thin preset. two, a
progress heartbeat: a loop that periodically polls the running workflow and briefs the maintainer
so it never looks frozen. the generic loop examples (babysit-prs, the ten-minute no-interval
default) are not our case; our loop is a recall watchdog and a heartbeat.

the workflow patterns mapped to our work. research: sweep the 224 research chunks in parallel,
read deep, synthesize with citations of what was used; this feeds the neural-text spike and the
pq/opq/brotli/fse survey before any code. understand: parallel readers over the existing
encoding, runtime, and simd code, returning a map of where to plug the codec. migrate: apply a
codec across the layers (format, runtime, simd, python, measure), discover the touch-points,
transform each, verify, with the caveat that shared frozen-format files are never transformed in
parallel. review: the adversarial verification by dimensions (build and gates; content_hash and
golden; recall and net-of-fp on the real ruler; determinism, offline, and panic; scope and
validation), refute each finding before accepting. design: for a real fork (pq-192 versus
opq-192 versus residual quant for the margin, or per-space sections versus a single pool for
multimodal), generate n independent approaches, a judge panel, synthesize the best.

how to split the teams in harmony. many work-orders edit the same frozen-format files (layout,
the encoding registry, search, simd), so sequence what touches the same files and parallelize
only disjoint OWNS lists. the hard rules of every workflow: sequential on the shared frozen files,
one editor at a time, coordinated by the foundation team; heavy verification also sequential,
never several agents running measure and cargo at once (they fight over the target dir and the
measure files and corrupt the number); self-correct up to three rounds, verify, on refutation the
fix agent gets the exact evidence and corrects, re-verify; no early stop unless a hard red blocks
a dependent, in which case log and continue; validate before commit, always, with recall measured
on the real ruler and net-of-fp. the teams: foundation runs migrate to plug the pq codec into
format and runtime and owns the shared files; embeddings runs design to pick pq versus opq versus
residual for the margin, then migrate to implement the winner; text runs research first for the
neural spike (outside the format, timeboxed) and migrate for brotli and fse which are certain
delivery; product runs the flagship in parallel because its OWNS is disjoint (hybrid in ask,
forge-0b), without touching the format files. over all of it, a regression-guard loop runs the
measure against the gates so any preset that slips below the margin shows up immediately, not
three commits later.

the honest number targets

tiny today is 0.256 at recall 0.992 (on the weak ruler; re-measure on the real ruler in
gate-zero). pq-192 plain is a hypothesis at 0.206 / 0.951 (unmeasured, errata; no committed codec or run backs it); with opq seeking margin the
target is recall greater than or equal to 0.96; if opq lifts pq-128 (3.9 mb) over 0.96 the file
goes to about 0.19; with brotli and fse on text (15.7 mb toward about 13) it reaches about 0.16
to 0.18. that, pq plus opq plus brotli with recall greater than or equal to 0.96 and margin on
the real ruler, is the guaranteed honest number we pursue. 0.10 exists but only via neural text,
and stays a marked bet dependent on the spike, never a promised goal.

the first movement

not the codec. gate-zero: the real-query recall harness, so we stop measuring on the easy ruler.
then cycle 1 (pure pq, proven in the real .nest with the failure criterion). then the teams in
parallel, each on its pattern, with the regression-guard loop watching.
